---
layout: default
title: The New News
category: writing
---
<div class="writing">
One of the most interesting things going on with my feed is the expanding relationship between publishers and social media. Long story short, I believe that we’re moving from a phase in which social strategy amounts to optimizing social media to one in which the content of publication itself is optimized by social media. The crucial difference is the shift in emphasis from tacking on social media, however effectively, to integrating social feedback into the curation loop.
The upshot, so far, has been well encapsulated by BuzzFeed. Its CEO <a href="http://adage.com/article/special-report-digital-conference/buzzfeed-ceo-social-marketers-tap-emotional-intelligence/234205/">describes</a> its strategy as: “If I saw this on my Facebook wall would I click it?” The result is eminently clickable content that falls short of nourishment. The cliché has become: socially-oriented content tends to consist of photos of kittens.
So my ears perked up when I saw <a href="http://gawker.com/5994400/boss-writes-memo">this memo</a> by Gawker Media CEO Nick Denton:
<blockquote>Our wordy headlines are a growing disadvantage...Google and others truncate headlines at 70 characters. On the Manti Teo story, Deadspin's scoop fell down the Google search results, overtaken by copycat stories with simpler headlines.</blockquote>
<blockquote>Deadspin's headline was 118 characters. Vital information — "hoax" — was one of the words that was cut off. Our headline was less intelligible — and less clickworthy — than others.</blockquote>
To paraphrase, Gawker Media entities will now use shorter headlines because they are more “clickworthy”. That’s a really small change but an invaluable glimpse into the social-driven curation loop: while one impact of socially-curated media has been facile content, the same driving principle will now operate to communicate “vital” information more readily to readers.
Journalism will continue to evolve in its integration with social media. This is a case of how that can be a good thing.
</div>
